

## Notes to Jake Curruthers

the FortiAnalzyer ordering guide is here:

https://www.fortinet.com/content/dam/fortinet/assets/data-sheets/og-fortianalyzer.pdf

Commerce has a perpetual VM license for 500GB/Day of logs.  They purchased license plus premium support

FAZ-VM-GB500 Upgrade license for adding 500 GB/Day of Logs.
 FC6-10-LV0VM-248-02-DD FortiCare Premium Support (for 1- 501 GB/Day of Logs)
 

A couple outstanding questions
      Do they need more daily log processing capacity ?  if so how much do they anticipate?
      Do they need another VM, + log processing capacity?  if so how much do they anticipate?

upsell opportunities:
      Do they need advanced visibility add-ons?  Attack Surface Rating & Compliance, FortiAI Service, IOC and Outbreak Detection Service

there are scenarios to each in the ordering guide.  happy to help Guidepoint, Commerce talk through this.

thanks!


## notes from meeting; 

they have one analzyer in rigth now.  getting log rate exceeded right now.  
snmp log rate exceeded on fortianalzer
4cpu 18gb of ram.  
averaging about 18939 logs persecond.  
branch firewalls
3 adoms right now
production adom
test adom
branch adoms

test has its own users
branch and prod has its own users
alot of it is from the branch firewalls.   they didn't have that many before./. 
1 year retention, 40TB of logs; 
version 7.4.10; 


https://community.fortinet.com/fortianalyzer-6/technical-tip-how-to-generate-a-fortianalyzer-report-for-the-received-log-volume-210575

89 gb per day; peaking to 150gb per day


fortisandbox demonstration; 
forcepoint; url filtering, pak file; 
     


## FAZ considerations:

The vm does not appear to be sized to meet the needs of the ingest (about 19000 logs per second):
    https://docs.fortinet.com/document/fortianalyzer-private-cloud/7.6.0/vmware-esxi-administration-guide/583600
    the vm should have 32GB RAM and 16 cores assigned to it.  Currently it has 18GB of ram and 4 cores.  
